All right guys so in the last video we created an index each team I'll file.
We opened it inside of a browser so we could see how it renders.
And this is not the standard of how to create a document.
There's some other things that you need to add even if we only wanted to display this in the browser.
There's some other tags that we need to add for it to be a valid HDMI all five document.
Now before we do anything I'm going to rename this file so instead of index I'm going to rename it to
0 1 underscore basic underscore layout dot HD CML.
Because like I said I want this to be a sandbox so you can go back to and you can check certain things
and I want each file to be named after what what we're doing inside of it.
OK so we're gonna just number them.
So they're in order if you don't want to number them you don't have to.
You could call it just basic layout or basic or whatever but I want to be very specific and I want to.
I want you guys to have this for future reference.
All right.
So basic layout of an H team page.
Let's actually just get rid of this for now.
So the first thing that you're going to want on every page female page is the doc type.
OK.
So I'm just gonna type this out.
It's gonna be an angle bracket.
Exclamation Doc type usually all capitals.
And then h team L and then closing angle bracket.
So this is a doc type and what this does is it tells the browser what type of document it is because
a browser can read each team all five.
It can read x h t AML it can read H team all four point zero point one.
So there's a lot of different variations of each team out but each team of five is definitely the standard
and that's what you're gonna want to use.
It's also it's also much easier than the others and it's less strict when it comes to tag syntax.
So I just want to quickly show you from the W3 schools dot com site which is a great site for reference.
This is a page all on dog types.
And if we go down here you'll see that the dog type declaration must be the very first thing in your
age team I'll document before the age team l tag which I'll go over in a second and down here it gives
us the different types.
So for age HTML5 it's what we what we just did but then you'll see that each team all four point zero
point one actually has a much longer dock type because there's different variations of strict transitional
frame set.
And this has to do with what's allowed and what's not.
So it's gotten much easier over the years with each team of five.
So we don't have to worry about these dog types but I just wanted to show you that there are very different
ex each team Al has its own dog type has transitional frame set one point zero one point one but this
is the only one that we have to worry about.
All right.
So I just wanted to kind of show you that so we're declaring this document as each team of five.
The next thing we want is in each team l tag.
OK.
So we'll do each team L and then hit enter a tab and then we'll finish it for me.
And we just want to hit enter so that the bottom tag is down below.
And now inside the each team I'll tag we have a head tag.
And then under the head we have a body tag.
Now notice that there's an indent here and V.S. code will do this automatically if you're using something
like Notepad which I would definitely not suggest it's not going to indented for you automatically so
you have to do it yourself.
Now the reason it's indented is because both of these tags are inside the H html tag.
OK.
This is actually the parent of these two tags and these are the children of the H team l tag.
Now the head and body are very different.
Head is for things like medal tags if you want to associate keywords with your page.
It's basically just information about your page it doesn't actually display in the browser in the body
of the browser.
Now one thing that you should definitely put in the head tag is the title.
OK.
So we want to put a title tag and again we're tagging it over because it's within the head tag for the
title I'm just going to say my Web site.
All right.
Now if I go ahead and save this and do control X I'm going to save the file and let's open it up.
So we have our basic layout dot aged him out because we renamed it.
And I'm going to stay open with Chrome and notice there's nothing in the body.
But if we look in the tab we see my web site.
Whatever you put in the title tag is gonna show right here.
OK so it's very important for you to have a title.
Now whatever we want the body we put in the body so we can put back our H one.
Say my Web site and we can put our paragraph
and we'll go ahead and save and we'll go back and reload.
And now we have our H one in paragraph in the body.
OK.
So anything that you want to show in this area is going to go in the body of your your document.
All right so you just want to keep this structure in mind.
This is the the core fundamental mandatory structure of an aged him I'll document.
You have your doc type at the top.
You have your h team all tags that wrap around everything and then you have a head and body area in
your head.
You should at least have the title and then the body.
You just have whatever you your Web site content will be.
So the last thing I want to show you is how to create a comment case so you might want to label stuff
without it actually rendering in the browser.
So let's say I wanted to put a comment right here.
What I would do is put an angle bracket an exclamation mark and then double hyphen.
Once I do that and V.S. code it actually auto completes the rest of it.
But this is the format of a comment so I'll just say this is a comment.
So starts off like this and then it ends with double hyphen and an angle bracket.
So just make sure you don't forget the exclamation.
Because that's not a valid comment.
And notice that it turns green and V.S. code to let you know that it's it's actually a comment.
And if I save this and we go to the browser and reload notice it doesn't show here because it's a comment
now in browsers you can view the source code.
You can view the HD him I'll source on a Mac you can do command option you add on Windows I believe
it's control you and it will open up a new tab that shows you the actual HD CML so you can see our dock
type are each terminal tags all that stuff.
It also will show the comments in the source code.
OK just to let you know that.
So let's go back and I want to show you how you can common out something that's already there.
So if I just put my tab my cursor on this line right here in this code I can actually just do control
and then forward slash work or a question mark the same key the forward slash question mark.
So if I hold control and hit that it will comment the whole line out and I can toggle it if I hit it
again control forward slash I can just toggle the comment if I wanted to come comment out multiple lines
I could highlight them and again control forward slash and that will comment out the whole thing.
There may be times when you want to just kind of not show a certain part of the team Al Allen the browser
and you want to comment it out OK and you can put this on a separate line as well like that.
That will still work.
This is all commented out.
All right so that's going to be it for this video guys in the next one.
I want to give you some tips and tricks with is code for instance we can generate the basic structure
automatically without having to type all this out with every age team Al page.
I also want to give you a couple extensions that I want to recommend and that I'll be using in this
course.
All right so I'll see you in the next video.